# Information About Real Estate Properties in Tashkent, Uzbekistan.
## by Olanisebe Taiwo


## Dataset
> This dataset was downloaded from kaggle and it contains data about real estate properties that were put up for sale on a real estate property site in Tashkent, Uzbekistan. This dataset contains 7421 inputs with 9 column attributes. I discovered some quality issues with the data in the scope of incorrect data types and incorrect column names. I converted incorrect column data types from integers to a categorical data type and renamed columns that were not descriptive enough, that is, they did not specify the units of their column values.

## Summary of Finding
> From the analysis of this data set, I found out that most of the real estate properties in the districts of Tashkent(the capial state of Uzbekistan), which  are present in this dataset, are priced within a range of 10,000 to 100,000 USD, with properties having an average size of about 73 square metres. Using multiple visualiztions I was able to discover the following:
Using a barchart and a piechart, I was able to identify Chilonzor and Bektemir as the districts with the most and least number of real estate properties up for sale respectively and the number of rooms, level of properties and maximum level of buidings most properties in this datast are associated with, with the counts being 2, 4 and 4 respectively. From these univariate visualizations, one can imply that properties that are being sold in the districts of Tashkent are built for a target market of small families with a preference of buildings that are not too far away from the ground.
Moving on to bivariate explorations, i employed violin plots, box plots and clustered bar charts to show relationships between various variables in the dataset. I found these following relationships:
From a violin plot and a box plot, I identified the districts with the cheapest and most expensive real estate properties up for sale in Tashkent, being the Bektemir and Mirobod districts respectively. These plots also showed that the the Chilonzor district, which boasts of the most real estate properties up for sale in the nation's capital, also has a fairly low average price for properties. I also used box plots and violin plots to show the relationship between the price of properties and the number of rooms they are built with, the floor level in which they are located and the total number of levels that are present in the building where they are located. I found out from these visualizations that there is an increase in price as the number of rooms present in a property increases, first floor properties are the cheapest in the market and higher levelled properties cost more than lower levelled properties.
I also used bar charts to relate the number of rooms most properties up for sale are built with and the level in which properties are located across the districts in the dataset. From these visualizations, it was clear that most properties across all districts include less than six rooms with 2 room properties being either the most common or the second most common property in them and most apartments being located or below 11 floors. These findings go inline with the previous implication suggesting the market preference of realtors and property owners alike in the capital of Uzbekistan. Finally, I used a scatterplot to relate the size of properties in square meters with their price and also a violin plot to relat districts with the average size of properties in square meters. I found out that there is a positive correlation between the price of properties and their size and also that properties have a similar average size across the districts.
Moving on to multivariate relationships, I used a faceted scatterplot to break down the actual distribution of the size of properties in individual districts and relate it to the price of said properties in USD. These plots showed that size of properties influenced its price, with the scatterplots giving positive correlations across all the districts except the Yangihayot district. It was earlier shown that the Yangihayot district along with the Bektemir district have the fewest number of properties up for sale in them, with counts of 14 and 8 respetively, making information gotten from scatterplots concerning these districts very intuitive. I finally used a clustered bar chart to see how the number of rooms across all the districts affects the pricing of properties and also how the number of rooms located on various levels influenced its price. These charts showed that although there were exceptions concerning one case across the districts, the normal pattern discovered was that the number of rooms a property has generally increases its price across the districts and higher levelled properties mostly included 5 or less rooms.

## Key insights for presentation
The key insights I used for the presentation were the count of districts with the most real estate properties up for sale, The number of rooms most real estate properties were built with, the cheapest and most expensive districts in terms of price of properties and the relationships between the price of properties and its size and the number of rooms present in said properties.
I chose these insights because I want to show attributes that influence price of properties across districts and also show the composition of properties , as well as the most cost efficient property locations provided in the dataset.